---
title:  Organizing For Power Online Lecture (Part 2)
date:   2019-11-12 18:00:00 +0100
---

The online training with [Jane F. McAlevey](https://twitter.com/rsgexp) takes place from 18:30 to 20:00 Central European Time. The lecture will be in English. We will open the doors at 18:00 and there will be a group discussion afterwards. Attendance at prior events not mandatory. 

## {{ page.date | date: '%A, %d %B %Y' }}

{% include youtube.html id="K6_efw7ZcMs" %}

Workers across the globe are under nearly unbearable pressure as the growing millionaire and billionaire class strategically redistributes all wealth away from the many and towards a tiny few. Neoliberalism—the deliberate destruction of worker power and with it, the social welfare state—must be reversed if we stand a chance at restoring dignity and fairness for the majority, and saving the planet from the climate crisis. The rise of the far right, who promise simple solutions while advancing anti-immigrant, racist tropes that blame people of color and poor people for the injustices caused by corporations and the super-rich, must be stopped. And only real, deep organizing is going to ensure that our future world is based not around the corporate 1% but around the needs and desires of ordinary everyday people, across the world.

Jane is a long-time union organizer, negotiator and strategist. Because Jane’s earliest years of organizing work were in the environmental justice and community organizing movements, she developed an approach to trade unionism that deeply integrates workplace and nonworkplace concerns into one collective agenda. In her most recent book, No Shortcuts, she writes about her thirty years of experience defeating the toughest opponents and gives practical guidance for organizing campaigns designed to win. And Jane is also great at teaching organizing methods, from how to identify the people in the ranks we need to build majority participation to creative strategies involving hundreds, and thousands of workers in the collective bargaining process, and building electoral power as an essential compliment to shop floor organizing.

This course, which is free, will include voices from the labor movement across the world because more than ever, the fight for worker power is a global fight. Corporations and bosses move seamlessly across the globe, maximizing exploitation, while workers fight in isolation from one another.

The lectures start at the end of October and take place every Tuesday from *18:30 to 20:00* Central European Time.

* [Lecture 1](/events/10): 29th of October  - in MaHalle
* Lecture 2: 12th of November - in MaHalle
* [Lecture 3](/events/12): 19th of November - Nachbarschaftsladen Kotti e.V.
* [Lecture 4](/events/13): 26th of November - in Aquarium am Südblock

## Venue

[MaHalle, Waldermarstrasse 110, Berlin](https://www.google.com/maps/place/Waldemarstra%C3%9Fe+110,+10997+Berlin/@52.5009706,13.4261441,17z/data=!3m1!4b1!4m5!3m4!1s0x47a84e4a74a963c9:0xebecab80999c346d!8m2!3d52.5009674!4d13.4283381)

## Accessibility

MaHalle is a smoke-free environment. Children are welcome. The venue bathrooms are wheelchair accessible, while the entrance has one step that might pose a challenge for some wheelchair users.

## Agenda

* 18:00 - Introduction warm-up
* 18:30 - Interactive Webinar begins
* 20:00 - Wrap up

## Links

- [Facebook event](https://www.facebook.com/events/1465413680263997/)
- [Rosa Luxemburg Foundation](http://www.rosalux-nyc.org/organizing-for-power-with-jane-mcalevey/)
