---
title:  "Learning Group Session #8 📚"
date:   2020-06-25 19:00:00 +0200
tags:
 - learning
---

## Tech Workers Coalition Berlin - Learning Club
Learning is central to workers' empowerment. Without knowledge on the complex world we operate in, we are prey to the interests of those who capitalize on exploitation. Tech Worker Coalition organizes regular sessions in the form of reading groups to read and discuss articles, books and pamphlets about a variety of topics that sit on the boundary between technology critique, politics, philosophy and sociology. The role of the Tech Worker, the possible strategies and the history of worker organizations are also targets to our work.

## {{ page.date | date: '%A, %d %B %Y at %H:%M' }}

# The Californian Ideology

In this session we are going to read a classic of technological critique published in the 1995: The Californian Ideology. A dry and precise analysis of the ideology that pervaded the American IT. 25 years later, this short paper is still informing our understanding of the values and thoughts behind the evolution of digital technology and the IT industry.

### Reading:

[The Californian ideology](http://www.imaginaryfutures.net/2007/04/17/the-californian-ideology-2/)


## How to participate

Finish the readings before hand, and download Zoom/call in.

Join [Zoom Meeting](edit)


We have a Slack group and a [Facebook event](edit)in which we might publish some additional readings for the more passionate participants.

## Accessibility

Check the [accessibility features](https://zoom.us/accessibility) of Zoom. It is also possible to use Zoom over mobile telephone. If you have any additional concerns, contact us at accessibility@techworkersberlin.com
