---
title:  "Learning Group Session #1 📚"
date:   2019-08-22 19:00:00 +0200
tags:
 - learning
---

## Tech Workers Coalition Berlin - Learning Club
Learning is central to workers' empowerment. Without knowledge on the complex world we operate in, we are prey to the interests of those who capitalize on exploitation. Tech Worker Coalition organizes regular sessions in the form of reading groups to read and discuss articles, books and pamphlets about a variety of topics that sit on the boundary between technology critique, politics, philosophy and sociology. The role of the Tech Worker, the possible strategies and the history of worker organizations are also targets to our work.

## {{ page.date | date: '%A, %d %B %Y' }}
In this first session we will read an excerpt from [Weapons of Math Destruction](https://www.amazon.it/Weapons-Math-Destruction-Increases-Inequality/dp/0553418815) by Cathy O'Neil. In particular, we will read and discuss the **6th chapter**. We also suggest you to read the **1st chapter** in order to have a better context for the reading. This won't be discussed during the session.

## How to participate

The easiest way to participate is to just show up at the event having read the material for the given session.

If you want to have a more interactive experience though, we have a Signal group in which we might publish some additional readings for the more passionate participants. To join, engage us through the mailing list and we will add you to the group.

## Venue

[Bilgisaray, Oranienstrasse 45, Berlin](https://www.google.com/maps/place/Bilgisaray/@52.499971,13.4204474,17z/data=!3m1!4b1!4m5!3m4!1s0x47a84e34f7d3f0db:0x4a368a3631962abc!8m2!3d52.499971!4d13.4226362)

## Accessibility

Bilgisaray is a smoke-free environment. Children are welcome. Unfortunately, it is not wheelchair accessible. We will try to ensure that future venue spaces are accessible.


## Code of Conduct
The meeting is covered under the [Berlin Code of Conduct](https://berlincodeofconduct.org/). Additionally, steps will be taken to ensure the privacy and safety of members attending. Sharing the identity of members and or taking photos are strictly forbidden unless express consent is given.


## Contact info

Listserv: To subscribe send an email to [techworkersberlin-subscribe@lists.riseup.net](mailto:techworkersberlin-subscribe@lists.riseup.net)
