---
title:  "Meeting #3"
date:   2019-08-15 19:00:00 +0200
---

## Tech Workers Coalition Berlin
Tech Workers have a lot of potential power to change society. Anyone who identifies as a _tech worker_ and is interested in learning how to build collective power or get involved in a campaign is welcome. Tech Workers are currently organising against gender pay gaps, workplace harassment, surveillance technologies, amongst other things. This document is an agenda item for the first meeting of Tech Workers Coalition Berlin.

## {{ page.date | date: '%A, %d %B %Y' }}
The third meeting of Tech Workers Coalition Berlin

## Venue

[Lichtenrader Strasse 12, Berlin 12049](https://www.google.com/maps/place/Lichtenrader+Str.+12,+12049+Berlin/@52.4766447,13.4179108,17z/data=!3m1!4b1!4m5!3m4!1s0x47a84fbe2daadf25:0xfeb48f8157c6f59e!8m2!3d52.4766447!4d13.4200995)

## Accessibility

Children are welcome. Unfortunately, it is not wheelchair accessible. We will try to ensure that future venue spaces are accessible.

## Agenda
* 18:45 - Brief introduction for newer folks
* 19:00 - Introduction, find note takers
* 19:10 - Working Group report back from [Learning Club](/learning-club), Communications and Web.

* 19:25 - Climate Strike Breakout Group
  * Identify message/theme
  * Identify literature/stickers/promo material needed
  * New logo/banner?

* 19:25 - Worker Inquiries Breakout Group
  * Gain insight into immediate steps before workplace organising
  * Have framework to identify different potential allies

* 20:00 - Report back to group discussion

* 20:15 - Announcements, Topics for future Meeting

## Code of Conduct
The meeting is covered under the [Berlin Code of Conduct](https://berlincodeofconduct.org/). Additionally, steps will be taken to ensure the privacy and safety of members attending. Sharing the identity of members and or taking photos are strictly forbidden unless express consent is given.

## Contact info
Twitter: [@TechWorkersBER](https://twitter.com/TechWorkersBER)

Listserv: To subscribe send an email to [techworkersberlin-subscribe@lists.riseup.net](mailto:techworkersberlin-subscribe@lists.riseup.net)

Join the #local-berlin on Slack, by subscribing [here](https://techworkerscoalition.org/subscribe)
