---
title:  "Learning Group Session #2 📚"
date:   2019-10-17 19:00:00 +0200
tags:
 - learning
---

## Tech Workers Coalition Berlin - Learning Club
Learning is central to workers' empowerment. Without knowledge on the complex world we operate in, we are prey to the interests of those who capitalize on exploitation. Tech Worker Coalition organizes regular sessions in the form of reading groups to read and discuss articles, books and pamphlets about a variety of topics that sit on the boundary between technology critique, politics, philosophy and sociology. The role of the Tech Worker, the possible strategies and the history of worker organizations are also targets to our work.

## {{ page.date | date: '%A, %d %B %Y' }}
In this second session we will read a selection of articles from Notes from Below, a socialist journal that, among other topics, publishes plenty of content about Technology and Labour. You're invited to explore their website since the level of their content is always very high. For our group, we will focus on three articles that discuss some aspects of labour organization in the tech sector, to give more context to the ideas behind Tech Workers Coalition's activities and goals.

Here is the list of articles:

* [Prospects for Organizing the Tech Industry](https://notesfrombelow.org/article/prospects-for-organizing-the-tech-industry)
* [Tech workers, platform workers, and workers' inquiry](https://notesfrombelow.org/article/tech-workers-platform-workers-and-workers-inquiry)
* [Diversity, Scarcity, and Labour in Tech](https://notesfrombelow.org/article/diversity-scarcity-and-labour-in-tech)

## How to participate

The easiest way to participate is to just show up at the event having read the material for the given session.

If you want to have a more interactive experience though, we have a Slack group in which we might publish some additional readings for the more passionate participants

## Venue

[Bilgisaray, Oranienstrasse 45, Berlin](https://www.google.com/maps/place/Bilgisaray/@52.499971,13.4204474,17z/data=!3m1!4b1!4m5!3m4!1s0x47a84e34f7d3f0db:0x4a368a3631962abc!8m2!3d52.499971!4d13.4226362)

## Accessibility

Bilgisaray is a smoke-free environment. Children are welcome. Unfortunately, it is not wheelchair accessible. We will try to ensure that future venue spaces are accessible.


## Code of Conduct
The meeting is covered under the [Berlin Code of Conduct](https://berlincodeofconduct.org/). Additionally, steps will be taken to ensure the privacy and safety of members attending. Sharing the identity of members and or taking photos are strictly forbidden unless express consent is given.


## Contact info

Listserv: To subscribe send an email to [techworkersberlin-subscribe@lists.riseup.net](mailto:techworkersberlin-subscribe@lists.riseup.net)
